Sorry for the sparse documentation, this will be amended at a later date.



Owing to how matlab handles sparse matrixes, i.e. zeros are ignored,
this code performs max sum belief propagation (see papers by Werner
and Schlesinger) and not the min sum BP described in the paper. This
 may seem a little weird, but when I used min sum, you would indicate
 that a particular pairwise transition should be ignored by setting it 
to a better value than costs you don't want to ignore.

If you are still hopelessly stuck after reading this documentation you
 can email me at chrisr@eecs.qmul.ac.uk and I'll try to clarify stuff
further.



Before you do that, run 

mex match2nd.cpp

 from matlab or octave to compile the code

typing match2nd should then bring up a brief list of parameters.

match2nd should be called with the arguments:

M = match2nd (cell(unary), cell(pairwise) cell(tertiary),no_occluded_states, tie_breaker)

 

cell(unary) is a cell of length frames, where each element of the t^th
cell contains a dense matrix of unary potentials of size objects *
locations(in frame t), this is the likelihood cost of assigning a
particular object to a particular location in the current frame.



cell(pairwise) is a cell of length frames-1, where each element of the
cell contains a *sparse* matrix of size locations(in frame t) by
locations(in frame t-1) . Holes in the sparse matrix, i.e. unset zero
elements indicate impossible transitions that can be ignored by the
algorithm.  I'm not performing any sanity checking here, so negative 
values of elements of the sparse matrix explicitly set to 0 may be 
transitioned to, and this can cause surprising results.

 cell(tertiary) is a cell of length frames-2, where each element of the
 cell contains a dense vector of at least the length of valid
 transitions over 3 frames (this means you can use a large vector of 0s
to perform BP without tertiary potentials). 

cell(tertiary) should be
ordered using dictionary order.
i.e. something like this, 
1 1 1 
1 1 2 1 2 1 
1 2 2 2 1 1 
minus the invalid transitions indicated by 0 elements of the pairwise
matrixes. 

Occluded_states is number of states that are occluded and do not make
use of exclusion constraints. The occluded states occur at the end of
the set of states i.e.  [l_1 l_2 l_3 ... o_1 _2]

The method has some trouble with ties in the absence of unary
potentials, to resolve this in sports tracking, you should explicitly
 set the location of players in at least one frame (e.g. the first),
although you do not need to set their location in the same frame. If 
this is not possible, as in the surveillance applications, then the 
potential tie_resolution biases solutions towards the proposal made by
 earlier object tracks. The results in the paper were obtained by
 setting tie_breaker to 0 in all applications except surveillance, and
 Inf in the final case.